# This publication is intellectual property of Canonical Ltd. Its contents
# can be duplicated, either in part or in whole, provided that a copyright
# label is visibly located on each copy.
#
# All information found in this book has been compiled with utmost
# attention to detail. However, this does not guarantee complete accuracy.
# Neither Canonical Ltd, the authors, nor the translators shall be held
# liable for possible errors or the consequences thereof.
#
# Many of the software and hardware descriptions cited in this book
# are registered trademarks. All trade names are subject to copyright
# restrictions and may be registered trade marks. Canonical Ltd
# essentially adheres to the manufacturer's spelling.
#
# Names of products and trademarks appearing in this book (with or without
# specific notation) are likewise subject to trademark and trade protection
# laws and may thus fall under copyright restrictions.
#


=pod

=head1 NAME

aa-features-abi - Extract, validate and manipulate AppArmor feature abis

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<aa-features-abi> [OPTIONS] <SOURCE> [OUTPUT OPTIONS]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<aa-features-abi> is used to extract a features abi and output to
either stdout or a specified file. A SOURCE_OPTION must be specified.
If an output option is not specified the features abi is written to
stdout.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<aa-features-abi> accepts the following arguments:

=over 4

=item -h, --help

Display a brief usage guide.

=item -d, --debug

show messages with debugging information

=item -v, --verbose

show messages with stats

=back

=head1 SOURCE

=over 4

=item -x, --extract

Extract the features abi for the kernel

=item -f FILE, --file=FILE

Load the features abi from FILE and send it to OUTPUT OPTIONS.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT OPTIONS

=over 4

=item --stdout

Write the features abi to I<stdout>, this is the default if no output option
is specified.

=item -w FILE, --write FILE

Write the features abi to I<FILE>.

=back


=head1 BUGS

If you find any bugs, please report them at
L<https://gitlab.com/apparmor/apparmor/-/issues>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

apparmor(7), apparmor.d(5), aa_features(3), and L<https://wiki.apparmor.net>.

=cut
