# $Id$
# ----------------------------------------------------------------------
#    Copyright (c) 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007,
#                  2008, 2009
#    NOVELL (All rights reserved)
#
#    Copyright (c) 2010
#    Canonical Ltd. (All rights reserved)
#
#    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
#    modify it under the terms of version 2 of the GNU General Public
#    License published by the Free Software Foundation.
#
#    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
#    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
#    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
#    GNU General Public License for more details.
#
#    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
#    along with this program; if not, contact Novell, Inc.
# ----------------------------------------------------------------------


=pod

=head1 NAME

apparmor.vim - vim syntax highlighting file for AppArmor profiles

=head1 SYNOPSIS

The SUSE vim package is configured to automatically use syntax
highlighting for AppArmor policies stored in /etc/apparmor.d/ and the
extra policies stored in /etc/apparmor/profiles/extras/. If you wish to
use the syntax highlighting in a specific vim session, you may run:

 :syntax on
 :setf apparmor

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<apparmor.vim> provides syntax highlighting rules for the vim(1) text
editor; the rules provide an easy visual method to inspect AppArmor
profiles for syntax correctness and semantics.

The colors indicate the relative severity of granting a specific set of
privileges. Ranking access with colors is necessarily generic and vague,
but it may help you understand your profiles better.

=head1 BUGS

B<apparmor.vim> does not properly detect dark versus light backgrounds.
Patches accepted. If you find any bugs, please report them at
L<http://https://bugs.launchpad.net/apparmor/+filebug>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

vim(1), apparmor(7), apparmor.d(5), aa_change_hat(2), and
L<http://wiki.apparmor.net>.

=cut
