# $Id$
# This publication is intellectual property of Novell Inc. Its contents
# can be duplicated, either in part or in whole, provided that a copyright
# label is visibly located on each copy.
# 
# All information found in this book has been compiled with utmost
# attention to detail. However, this does not guarantee complete accuracy.
# Neither SUSE LINUX GmbH, the authors, nor the translators shall be held
# liable for possible errors or the consequences thereof.
# 
# Many of the software and hardware descriptions cited in this book
# are registered trademarks. All trade names are subject to copyright
# restrictions and may be registered trade marks. SUSE LINUX GmbH
# essentially adheres to the manufacturer's spelling.
# 
# Names of products and trademarks appearing in this book (with or without
# specific notation) are likewise subject to trademark and trade protection
# laws and may thus fall under copyright restrictions.
# 
# Please direct suggestions and comments to apparmor-general@forge.novell.com.


=pod

=head1 NAME

aa-autodep - guess basic AppArmor profile requirements

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<aa-autodep I<E<lt>executableE<gt>> [I<E<lt>executableE<gt>> ...]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<aa-autodep> is used to generate a minimal AppArmor profile for a set of
executables. This program will generate a profile for binary executable
as well as interpreted script programs. At a minimum aa-autodep will provide
a base profile containing a base include directive which includes basic
profile entries needed by most programs.  The profile is generated by
recursively calling ldd(1) on the executables listed on the command line.

=head1 BUGS

This program does not perform full static analysis of executables, so
the profiles generated are necessarily incomplete. If you find any bugs,
please report them to bugzilla at L<http://bugzilla.novell.com>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

apparmor(7), apparmor.d(5), aa-complain(1), aa-enforce(1), change_hat(2), and
L<http://forge.novell.com/modules/xfmod/project/?apparmor>.

=cut
