# $Id$ 
# This publication is intellectual property of Novell Inc. Its contents
# can be duplicated, either in part or in whole, provided that a copyright
# label is visibly located on each copy.
# 
# All information found in this book has been compiled with utmost
# attention to detail. However, this does not guarantee complete accuracy.
# Neither SUSE LINUX GmbH, the authors, nor the translators shall be held
# liable for possible errors or the consequences thereof.
# 
# Many of the software and hardware descriptions cited in this book
# are registered trademarks. All trade names are subject to copyright
# restrictions and may be registered trade marks. SUSE LINUX GmbH
# essentially adheres to the manufacturer's spelling.
# 
# Names of products and trademarks appearing in this book (with or without
# specific notation) are likewise subject to trademark and trade protection
# laws and may thus fall under copyright restrictions.
# 
# Please direct suggestions and comments to apparmor-general@forge.novell.com.


=pod

=head1 NAME

enforce - set an AppArmor security profile to I<enforce> mode from
I<complain> mode.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<enforce I<E<lt>executableE<gt>> [I<E<lt>executableE<gt>> ...]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<enforce> is used to set the enforcement mode for one or more profiles
to I<enforce>.  This command is only relevant is conjuction with the
utility I<complain> which sets a profile to complain mode. The default
mode for a security policy is enforce and the I<complain> utility must
be run to change this behavior.

=head1 BUGS

None. Please report any you find to bugzilla at
L<http://bugzilla.novell.com>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

apparmor(7), apparmor.d(5), complain(1), change_hat(2), and
L<http://forge.novell.com/modules/xfmod/project/?apparmor>.

=cut
