# $Id$
# This publication is intellectual property of Novell Inc. Its contents
# can be duplicated, either in part or in whole, provided that a copyright
# label is visibly located on each copy.
# 
# All information found in this book has been compiled with utmost
# attention to detail. However, this does not guarantee complete accuracy.
# Neither SUSE LINUX GmbH, the authors, nor the translators shall be held
# liable for possible errors or the consequences thereof.
# 
# Many of the software and hardware descriptions cited in this book
# are registered trademarks. All trade names are subject to copyright
# restrictions and may be registered trade marks. SUSE LINUX GmbH
# essentially adheres to the manufacturer's spelling.
# 
# Names of products and trademarks appearing in this book (with or without
# specific notation) are likewise subject to trademark and trade protection
# laws and may thus fall under copyright restrictions.
# 
# Please direct suggestions and comments to apparmor-general@forge.novell.com.


=pod

=head1 NAME

apparmor_parser - loads AppArmor profiles into the kernel

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<apparmor_parser [-adrR] [--add] [--debug]  [--replace] [--remove]
                  [--preprocess] [--Include n] [--base n] [ --Complain ]>

B<apparmor_parser [-hv] [--help] [--version]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<apparmor_parser> is used to import new apparmor.d(5) profiles
into the Linux kernel. The profiles restrict the operations available
to processes by executable name.

The profiles are loaded into the Linux kernel by the B<apparmor_parser>
program, which takes its input from standard input. The input supplied to
B<apparmor_parser> should be in the format described in apparmor.d(5).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -a, --add

Insert the AppArmor definitions given into the kernel. This is the default
action. This gives an error message if a AppArmor definition by the same
name already exists in the kernel, or if the parser doesn't understand
its input. It reports when an addition succeeded.

=item -r, --replace

This flag is required if an AppArmor definition by the same name already
exists in the kernel, and one wants to replace the definition already
in the kernel with the definition giving on standard input.

=item -R, --remove

This flag is used to remove an AppArmor definition already in the kernel.
Note that it still requires a complete AppArmor definition as described
in subdomain.d(5) even though the contents of the definition aren't
used.

=item -p, --preprocess

Parse the profile(s) and process include directives and output the
result to stdout.

=item -I n, --Include n

Add element n to the search path when resolving #include directives
defined as an absolute paths.

=item -b n, --base n

Set the base directory for resolving #include directives
defined as relative paths.

=item -C, --Complain

Load the profile in complain mode.

=item -h, --help

Give a quick reference guide.

=item -v, --version

Print the version number and exit.

=item -d, --debug

Given once, only checks the profiles to ensure syntactic correctness.
Given twice, dumps its interpretation of the profile for checking.

=back

=head1 BUGS

None known. If you find any, please report them to bugzilla at
L<http://bugzilla.novell.com>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

apparmor(7), apparmor.d(5), subdomain.conf(5), change_hat(2), and
L<http://forge.novell.com/modules/xfmod/project/?apparmor>.

=cut
