# $Id: apparmor.vim.pod 6225 2006-02-04 00:25:12Z steve $
# This publication is intellectual property of Novell Inc. Its contents
# can be duplicated, either in part or in whole, provided that a copyright
# label is visibly located on each copy.
# 
# All information found in this book has been compiled with utmost
# attention to detail. However, this does not guarantee complete accuracy.
# Neither SUSE LINUX GmbH, the authors, nor the translators shall be held
# liable for possible errors or the consequences thereof.
# 
# Many of the software and hardware descriptions cited in this book
# are registered trademarks. All trade names are subject to copyright
# restrictions and may be registered trade marks. SUSE LINUX GmbH
# essentially adheres to the manufacturer's spelling.
# 
# Names of products and trademarks appearing in this book (with or without
# specific notation) are likewise subject to trademark and trade protection
# laws and may thus fall under copyright restrictions.
# 
# Please direct suggestions and comments to apparmor-general@forge.novell.com.


=pod

=head1 NAME

apparmor.vim - vim syntax highlighting file for AppArmor profiles

=head1 SYNOPSIS

To automatically use the apparmor.vim syntax highlighting in vim, place
the following lines in your ~/.vimrc file:

 autocmd BufNewFile,BufRead /etc/apparmor.d/*  set syntax=apparmor
 autocmd BufNewFile,BufRead */sdprofiles/*     set syntax=apparmor
 autocmd BufNewFile,BufRead */codomain-*/*/*   set syntax=apparmor
 
 syntax on

If you wish to use the profile in a specific vim session, you may run:

 :syntax on
 :set syntax=apparmor

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<apparmor.vim> provides syntax highlighting rules for the vim(1) text
editor; the rules provide an easy visual method to inspect AppArmor
profiles for syntax correctness and semantics.

The most useful colors provided are I<red> for C<unconstrained execute>
access, I<green> for C<execute> access, and I<yellow> for C<write> access.

=head1 FILES

F</usr/share/vim/current/syntax/apparmor.vim>

=head1 BUGS

B<apparmor.vim> does not currently parse correctly files that are
#include'd or hats (see change_hat(2)). Patches accepted.  If you find
any bugs, please report them to bugzilla at L<http://bugzilla.novell.com>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

vim(1), apparmor(7), apparmor.d(5), change_hat(2), and
L<http://forge.novell.com/modules/xfmod/project/?apparmor>

=cut
