# $Id: complain.pod 6203 2006-02-02 22:03:41Z steve $ 
# This publication is intellectual property of Novell Inc. Its contents
# can be duplicated, either in part or in whole, provided that a copyright
# label is visibly located on each copy.
# 
# All information found in this book has been compiled with utmost
# attention to detail. However, this does not guarantee complete accuracy.
# Neither SUSE LINUX GmbH, the authors, nor the translators shall be held
# liable for possible errors or the consequences thereof.
# 
# Many of the software and hardware descriptions cited in this book
# are registered trademarks. All trade names are subject to copyright
# restrictions and may be registered trade marks. SUSE LINUX GmbH
# essentially adheres to the manufacturer's spelling.
# 
# Names of products and trademarks appearing in this book (with or without
# specific notation) are likewise subject to trademark and trade protection
# laws and may thus fall under copyright restrictions.
# 
# Please direct suggestions and comments to apparmor-general@forge.novell.com.


=pod

=head1 NAME

complain - set a AppArmor security profile to I<complain> mode.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<complain I<E<lt>executableE<gt>> [I<E<lt>executableE<gt>> ...]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<complain> is used to set the enforcement mode for one or more profiles to complain.
In this mode security policy is not enforced but rather access violations are logged
to the system log.  

=head1 BUGS

None. Please report any you find to bugzilla at
L<http://bugzilla.novell.com>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

apparmor(7), apparmor.d(5), enforce(1), change_hat(2), and
L<http://forge.novell.com/modules/xfmod/project/?apparmor>.

=cut
