# $Id$
# This publication is intellectual property of Novell Inc. Its contents
# can be duplicated, either in part or in whole, provided that a copyright
# label is visibly located on each copy.
# 
# All information found in this book has been compiled with utmost
# attention to detail. However, this does not guarantee complete accuracy.
# Neither SUSE LINUX GmbH, the authors, nor the translators shall be held
# liable for possible errors or the consequences thereof.
# 
# Many of the software and hardware descriptions cited in this book
# are registered trademarks. All trade names are subject to copyright
# restrictions and may be registered trade marks. SUSE LINUX GmbH
# essentially adheres to the manufacturer's spelling.
# 
# Names of products and trademarks appearing in this book (with or without
# specific notation) are likewise subject to trademark and trade protection
# laws and may thus fall under copyright restrictions.
# 
# Please direct suggestions and comments to apparmor-general@forge.novell.com.


=head1 NAME

Immunix - an introduction to Immunix technologies

=head1 DESCRIPTION

AppArmor is designed to increase the security of a typical Linux system
without noticeable impact on users of the system.

=over 4

=item *
SubDomain provides a filesystem-based process confinement mechanism; it
also mediates many system calls to prevent confined root-level
processes from breaking out of their domains.

=back

=head1 USER GUIDE

A comprehensive discussion of AppArmor technologies is included in the User's Guide,
available in F</usr/share/doc/packages/subdomain-docs/immunizing_applications.pdf>.


=head1 CONTRIBUTED SOFTWARE

Immunix, Inc., provides additional software for AppArmor
in the /extras directory F</usr/src/kernel-modules/SubDomain/profiles/extras>.
This extra software includes SubDomain 
profiles and rpms containing "change-hat" enabled versions of software. 
Immunix does not provide support for software located in this directory. 
If you would like to contribute Immunized software packages, please send
mail to the immunix-users mail list. (See below.)


=head1 FEEDBACK

Please file bug reports at L<https://bugs.wirex.com>. We also
have two mail lists: a moderate traffic immunix-users mail list
(L<http://mail.wirex.com/mailman/listinfo/immunix-users/>) used for
discussion with other Immunix OS users and a low traffic immunix-announce
(L<http://mail.wirex.com/mailman/listinfo/immunix-announce/>) mail list
used for security update and new product announcements.

Security bugs may be reported directly to security@immunix.com;
Immunix, Inc., recommends bug reporters follow the RFPolicy
(L<http://www.wiretrip.net/rfp/policy.html>) when reporting
vulnerabilities.

=head1 SEE ALSO

subdomain(7),
F</usr/share/doc/packages/subdomain-docs/immunizing_applications.pdf>

=cut
subdomain(7)

=cut
